# Flight Search

#### Video Demo:  <https://youtu.be/9GFspuZ17uk>

#### Description: 

This React app is a flight search website. Being a nomadic individual with a passion to travel, I wanted to create something I can actually use. It took me a couple weeks to come up with the idea and then figuring out what frameworks/languages I was going to use. The thing is, I knew building a react app was going to be a steep learning curve, being that I only know flask so far. I also knew it may take month/s to complete, but it was a challenge I was willing to take on if it meant I actually make something useful and beautiful. My logic was that quality > speed. I would much rather have one beautiful, functional app that took a couple months than 2-3 silly calculator or notepad project (nothing against anyone who has made a caluclator or notepad app lol) After realizing this, I started with the first component, the image. Then I went into the inputs with two parts- input origin and destination.

Being a travel guru I know exactly how these systems work since I've used google flights so much (where I got my inspiration from). I continued to learn how to implement a json file into each input component to create an autosuggest feature and learning react elements along the way. These is what the Input.jsx file is for. I added a selector similar to the froshIM one that David showed in lecture and I made it where the user can select how many ways (round trip/one way) and the dates update based on this - (InputDate.jx file). I also added the dates and imported the calendar from mui material which is google based which made it easier than making a calendar from scratch. This is where I learned how to use props and lift them to other components.

I then used the skyscanner API on Rapid API and learned how to fetch info based on the user input and then pass it to multiple endpoints in an API to achieve a desired result. These apis are passed to the InputOrigin and InputDest.jsx components. The final API call is in fetchFromAPI.js which takes all these endpoint .json results and passes it to this call. Mind you, every one of these components took anywhere from days to week/s. I ended up paying for the API subscription so that I can use it without worry of if my requests will run out or not. I was then able to take everything I learned so far and incorperate a flight list in FlightList.jsx that loops over the list of itineraries and displays them like cards similar to google flights or skyscanner. I found a loading bar and was able to use its documentation to decide whether or not the items are loading and based on this show/hide the loading bar. This process I learned how to use UseState and useEffect and when to use each for what. I had a lot of trouble figuring out the useState as there were countless times the API wouldn't work as expected or didn't come back with the information I expected. 

I learned the basics of Tailwind to edit the CSS of the project, as I discovered that it's MUCH easier to use CSS with this than traditional methods. I am overall extremely satisfied with the many hours I put into this project and I feel confident that I made sure to allow it to look as professional as possible. Thanks for reading! 

Best, Tarek.